\" t
.TH XML-FIXTAGS 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-fixtags \- convert HTML into XML on the standard output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-fixtags 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ FILE ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-fixtags
aggressively
converts a single HTML or XML file, obtained from the standard input or FILE, into a well formed XML file, written to the standard output, that can be processed
by 
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
without errors. 
.PP
The output that is produced by
.B xml-fixtags
is almost certainly not what you want, and you should nearly always use
a more sophisticated tool such as 
.BR tidy (1),
or
.BR xmllint (1)
for ordinary conversions.
.PP
.B xml-fixtags
is useful for processing documents which are not well formed to begin with,
and where it does not matter if the corrections resemble closely what the
original author intended, or when there are no alternatives installed on 
the system.
This makes the 
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
more robust in a transparent way, without duplicating the repair heuristics
in each command.
.PP
.B xml-fixtags
uses a very simple algorithm which tries to localise the effect
of well formedness errors in the input with minimal disruption to
the other parts of the input. If the input is already well formed XML,
then no modifications are performed.
.PP
The output of 
.B xml-fixtags
is not guaranteed to be valid, and does not follow any rules specific to
certain XML or HTML documents. It is merely guaranteed to be well formed.
.SH TRANSFORMATIONS
.P
This section describes the main transformations that are performed by
.BR xml-fixtags .
.P
If the file does not start with '<', then an extra root tag will be added
automatically (same effect as --root-wrap). As soon as a zero depth closing
tag is encountered, the output ends.
.P
If a closing tag is found which is not properly nested, all the children
of the tag are closed immediately as well.
If a closing tag is found which was not previously opened, it is opened and closed immediately. For the purposes of the preceding rules, tag names are
searched case insensitively.
.P
If an unknown entity reference "&name;" is found which has not been
declared before, it is replaced with the text "&amp;name;".
.P
If the --html switch is used, then the input is assumed to be HTML and
the rules for opening and closing tags will also depend on the type of tag.
The html, head, and body tags are inserted if they are missing, but full
DTD compliance is not attempted.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --root-wrap
Adds a standard root wrapper around the document, thereby incrementing
the depth of every tag. This can be used to 
prevent early truncation of the document when a zero depth closing tag
would otherwise be found.
.IP --html
Assume that the input document is HTML. This switches on some extra heuristics. It does not imply valid XHTML on output.
.IP --xml
Assume that the input document is XML. This is the default.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-fixtags returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH BUGS
.P
xml-fixtags is still primitive, and can fail to fix an input document.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
