\" t
.TH XML-FIND 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-find \- search for nodes in XML files and execute actions.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-find 
.R [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.R ]...
.RI [ EXPRESSION ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-find
searches the contents of FILE like a directory tree, and evaluates the 
given EXPRESSION on each encountered tag. The search starts at each XPATH associated with FILE, according to the common unified command line convention
described in 
.BR xml-coreutils (7).
For each tag, the EXPRESSION is evaluated from left to right and any
actions are performed as required, after which
.B xml-find
moves to the next tag. If no EXPRESSION is specified, the EXPRESSION is 
assumed to be -print.

.SH EXPRESSION
An expression is a sequence of actions to be performed in order for
each current node, while the XML document is being traversed.
Each action can be followed by zero or more arguments, and also evaluates
to true or false. When some action evaluates to false, the subsequent
actions are not evaluated. The available
actions are:
.IP -print
Prints the XPATH for the current node.
.IP -exec PROGRAM [ARG]... ';'
Execute PROGRAM with the optional list of ARG arguments. The final semicolon
indicates the end of arguments, and must be supplied even if no arguments are given. There are three special arguments, {} expands to the path for the currently visited tag, {@} expands to a list of attributes and values associated with the current tag, and {-} expands to the name of a temporary file which contains a copy of the currently visited node. Evaluates to true if PROGRAM returns zero, and false otherwise.
.IP -execnode PROGRAM [ARG]... ';'
Similar to -exec, but all paths are relative to the current node.
.IP -name PATTERN
Checks to see if the currently visited tag name matches the shell glob PATTERN. Returns true on a match, false otherwise.
.IP -path PATTERN
Checks to see if the path for the currently visited tag matches the shell glob PATTERN. Returns true on a match, false otherwise.
.IP '(' [ACTION]... ')'
Represents a block of actions. Returns true if every optional ACTION returns true, and false otherwise.
.IP '!' ACTION
Negates the value of ACTION. Returns true if ACTION returns false, and vice versa.
.IP ACTION1 '-a' ACTION2
Evaluates ACTION2 if and only if ACTION1 returns true. Returns true
if both ACTION1 and ACTION2 evaluate to true, false otherwise.
.IP ACTION1 '-o' ACTION2
Evaluates ACTION2 if and only if ACTION1 returns false. Returns the value 
of ACTION1 if true, or the value of ACTION2 otherwise.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-find returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Identify all the tag addresses which match a given XPATH:
.EX
xml-find movies.rss :/rss/channel -print
.EE
.P
For each matching node, print all of its attributes:
.EX
xml-find movies.rss ://media:content -exec echo {@} \;
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
