\" t
.TH XML-PASTE 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-paste \- merge admissible nodes from XML files on standard output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-paste 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.R [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.R ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-paste
traverses all FILEs in parallel, looking for admissible nodes which match a corresponding XPATH, and writing a series of <tab> nodes on standard output. The first instance of every admissible node is included in 
the first <tab> node, then the second instance of every admissible node is included in the second <tab> node, etc.
.PP
.B xml-paste
is inspired by
.BR paste (1):
whereas the latter merges successive lines, the former merges successive admissible nodes/subtrees.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-paste returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
If file1 contains the nodes foo[1], foo[2], ..., and 
file2 contains the nodes bar[1], bar[2], ..., then 
the following command 
outputs an XML file containing a list of tabs such that
tab[1] contains foo[1], bar[1], and 
tab[2] contains foo[2], bar[2], etc.
.P
.na
.EX
xml-paste file1 ://foo file2 ://bar
.EE
.br
.SH BUGS
.P
The ordering of the nodes inside each output <tab> is not necessarily the command line ordering, when the total number of XPATHs is large (more than 16 or so). 
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
