\" t
.TH XML-PRINTF 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-printf \- format and print data in an XML file to the standard output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-printf 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.I FORMAT
.RI [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.RI ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-printf
prints the string values of selected nodes according to the FORMAT.
The nodes are selected by the supplied XPATH(s) for each associated
FILE, using the common unified command line convention described in 
.BR xml-coreutils (7).
.P
The FORMAT string follows the usual rules of 
.BR printf (1). 
In particular, if there are more arguments on 
the command line than in the FORMAT, then FORMAT is reused.
.SH OPTIONS
.SH FORMAT
.P
The format string consists of ordinary text interspersed with % escape
sequences. Among the recognized sequences are %s, %d, %f, which convert
the corresponding node value into a string, an integer, or a floating point
value. Each % escape sequence can also contain various formatting flags
which control the minimum width and justification.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-printf returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Print two different tag values on a single line:
.EX
xml-printf '%-20s $%5.2f\n' invoice.xml :/invoice/ref :/invoice/total
.EE
.P
Print a list of all the entries associated with a particular tag:
.EX
xml-printf '%s' customers.xml ://name
.EE 
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
