\" t
.TH XML-CP 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-cp \- copy nodes from XML files into an XML file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-cp 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.RI ]...
.IR TARGET [: XPATH ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-cp
copies one or more selected nodes from the supplied FILE(s) into the 
TARGET file. If no FILE is given, then the standard input is read.
The nodes are chosen according to the common unified command line convention
described in 
.BR xml-coreutils (7).
.P
The TARGET file is not updated by default, only printed
to the standard output with the selected nodes inserted at the
first matching XPATH associated with TARGET. To actually write
the TARGET file, use the --write-files switch. By
default, data is inserted at the first matching XPATH of the 
TARGET. To insert at all matching XPATH(s) of the TARGET, use 
the --multi switch.
.P
Several options exist to choose where the copied data should be 
inserted in TARGET. The default option is --replace.
.P
The precise form of the data being copied depends on the supplied
XPATH(s). If the XPATH ends with a slash, data is copied excluding
the immediately surrounding tag. If the XPATH ends without a slash,
the surrounding tag is also copied. It is best to experiment.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --write-files
update the TARGET on the filesystem, rather than printing the result
to the standard output.
.IP --prepend
the copied nodes are inserted just before the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --replace
the copied nodes replaces the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --append
the copied nodes are inserted just after the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --multi
the copied nodes are inserted at every node that matches some XPATH associated with TARGET.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-cp returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Insert matching nodes (incl. children) from all source files as children
of the first available matching node of target file:
.EX
xml-cp --append *.xml ://secret treasure.xml :/treasure/hidden/
.EE
Overwrite a placeholder node completely with an XML data fragment:
.EX
xml-cp --write-files data.xml ://customer[3]/ template.xml :/invoice/customer/placeholder
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
