\" t
.TH XML-RM 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-rm \- remove nodes from XML files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-rm 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.R [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI : XPATH ...
.R ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
.B xml-rm
removes the selected XML nodes in each FILE on the command line, or
on the standard input if no FILE is given. The selected nodes for each
FILE must match the associated XPATH(s) according to the common unified 
command line convention described in
.BR xml-coreutils (7).
.P
To update a FILE that is not the standard input, the --write-files switch
must be given. In that case, each input file is written atomically.
.P
If the --write-files switch is not given, then 
.B xml-rm
only removes nodes from a document on the standard input, writing the 
result to the standard output. This is the default.
.P
If an XPATH ends with a slash, then only the text value of the
matching node(s) is removed (ie keeping the surrounding tags
intact). If the XPATH does not end with a slash, then the surrounding
tag is also removed. It is best to experiment.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --write-files
This option must be given if the input FILE(s) are to be updated on
the filesystem. Without it, only the standard input is filtered.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-rm returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Display a file without a certain attribute:
.EX
xml-rm employees.xml ://*@gender stdout
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
