\" t
.TH XML-MV 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-mv \- move nodes from XML files to an XML file or the standard output.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-mv 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.R [
.RI [ FILE ]...
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.R ]...
.I TARGET
.RI [: XPATH ]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-mv
moves one or more selected nodes from the supplied FILE(s) into the 
TARGET file. This is conceptually similar to a combination of 
.BR xml-cp (1)
and 
.BR xml-rm (1).
The nodes are chosen according to the common unified command line convention
described in 
.BR xml-coreutils (7).
.P
The TARGET file is not updated by default, only printed
to the standard output with the selected nodes inserted at the
first matching XPATH associated with TARGET. To actually write
the TARGET file, use the --write-files switch. To insert at
all matching XPATH(s) of the TARGET, use the --multi switch.
.P
The precise form of the data being copied and/or removed depends on 
the supplied XPATH(s). In particular, the presence or absence of
a trailing slash can affect the outcome. It is best to experiment.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP --write-files
update the TARGET on the filesystem, rather than printing the result
to the standard output.
.IP --prepend
the copied nodes are inserted just before the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --replace
the copied nodes replaces the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --append
the copied nodes are inserted just after the data of the first matching XPATH in TARGET.
.IP --multi
the copied nodes are inserted near every node that matches some XPATH associated with TARGET.
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-mv returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.P
Move a node into a different file:
.EX
xml-mv --write-files --append notes.xml :/book/note[2] important.xml :/book/
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
