\" t
.TH XML-LESS 1 "xml-coreutils" "Version @VERSION@" ""
.SH NAME
xml-less \- interactively display an XML file on a terminal.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP
.B xml-less 
.RI [ OPTION ]...
.RI [ FILE ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B xml-less
is a pager similar to 
.BR less (1),
but designed to display XML files exclusively. The input file is
parsed on-the-fly, and can be displayed with colour coding, and
folded/reformatted on demand. If no input file is given, the standard
input is read.
.P
Folding can be used to quickly understand the general form of a document, by
altering the indentation pattern of the currently displayed page.
Other useful operations include word wrapping long lines, and showing/hiding
attributes. 
.P
.B xml-less
does not have to read the entire FILE before rendering begins, so it should
be efficient for large input files provided that the chosen folding method 
allows it.
.P
The key combinations recognized by 
.B xml-less
are modeled on those of 
.BR less (1),
with some extensions: folding is controlled by tab key, and 
attributes, colours and wordwrap are chosen with the a, c and w keys
respectively. The help page is accessed using the H key.
.SH OPTIONS
.SH EXIT STATUS
xml-less returns 0 on success, or 1 otherwise.
.SH EXAMPLE
.EX
xml-cat bigfile.xml | xml-grep 'abc' | xml-less
.EE
.SH BUGS
Searching does not work yet.
.SH AUTHORS
.P
.MT laird@lbreyer.com
Laird A. Breyer
.ME
is the original author of this software.
The source code (GPLv3 or later) for the latest version is available at the
following locations: 
.PP
.na 
.UR http://www.lbreyer.com/gpl.html
.UE
.br
.UR http://xml-coreutils.sourceforge.net
.UE
.ad
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR xml-coreutils (7)
